vm-build-process.md, before:


# Tuffix VM Build Process

These are the instructions to create a Tuffix VM. Ordinarily, they only need to be followed by the instructors who create the release VM.

1. On host OS
  - Install/upgrade VirtualBox, using the specific version stated in the installation instructions. As of this writing, that is **6.0.10**, at either https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads or https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Download_Old_Builds_6_0.
  - Download the latest Xubuntu 64-bit release .iso file, as of this writing **xubuntu-19.04-desktop-amd64.iso** (https://xubuntu.org/download/).
2. In VirtualBox on the host computer
  - New VM
    - Name: **Tuffix 2019 Edition**
    - Type: Linux
    - Version: Ubuntu (64-bit)
    - Memory: 2048 MB
    - Create Virtual Hard Disk Now > VDI > Dynamically allocated > 40 GB
  - VM settings
    - System > Pointing device > PS/2 Mouse
  - Display
    - Video Memory > 128 MB
    - Enable 3D acceleration: Yes
  - Storage > optical drive > select the .iso image you downloaded above
3. Start VM --- Xubuntu installer
  - Language: English
  - Click “Install Xubuntu”
  - Keyboard: English (US)
  - Download updates: yes
  - Install third-party software: yes
  - Erase disk and install
  - Time Zone: Los Angeles
  - User
    - Name: student
    - Computer Name: tuffix-vm
    - Username: student (prefilled)
    - Password: student
    - Require login: yes
  - *(let it finish, remove optical disk, restart)*
4. Xubuntu/Tuffix guest
  - Login as student
  - Use Firefox to download a background image, move it to to `~/Pictures`, set it as the desktop wallpaper, delete `~/.mozilla`
    - (we delete `~/.mozilla` so that students won't see this step in their browsing history)
    - Fall 2018: [Tuffix-Background-v2-1920x1080 - Jeffrey Lo.png](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1QFt8kOPKjpd18fjnDWEVCxVmi4512xNy)
    - Spring 2019: [Tuffix Background v3.3 1920x1080 - Jeffrey Lo.png](https://drive.google.com/open?id=16aBkkGTcgG40m4ayiuGNYbLM5BmDVjEC)
    - 2019 Edition: [Wallpaper Tux meets Tuffy - Brenda Valls - Edited.jpg](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1xKmzS8ilw-c1jdHSIQhd4j1mi36blIBC)
    - **pick a new image for each release**
  - Update all packages
  ```
  $ sudo apt update
  $ sudo apt upgrade
  $ sudo apt clean
  ```
5. Follow the **native install instructions** to run the `tuffixize` script, etc.
6. Guest additions
  - if you haven't already, reboot the VM to make sure the upgraded kernel is running
  - with the VM running and student logged in...
  - click Devices > Insert Guest Additions CD image...
  - use a terminal to run `autorun.sh`
  - (the script takes a few minutes)
  - use the desktop icon to eject the guest additions CD
  - (as instructed) reboot the VM
  - verify that the additions are working by going fullscreen and observing
    that the desktop resizes accordingly
7. Zerofree
  - (this step makes the .ova file substantially smaller, thereby faster to download)
  - Shut down VM
  - Insert Xubuntu CD image again
  - Start VM > boot from CD > Try Xubuntu > terminal
  ```
  $ sudo apt install zerofree
  $ sudo zerofree -v /dev/sda1
  ```
  (this takes several minutes)
  - Shut down, including ejecting the Xubuntu CD
8. Final check
  - Create snapshot
  - Start VM
  - Check that Atom can start, fullscreen window works, Firefox has no history
  - Shut down
  - Restore the snapshot
9. Create .ova and checksum
  - VirtualBox > File > Export Appliance
    (this takes a few minutes)
  - `$ shasum -a 256 "Tuffix 2019 Edition.ova"`
  - Upload the .ova to Google Drive
10. Publish
  - Update the following documents:
    - these VM build instructions (the bold text, and filename in the shasum command above)
    - installation instructions (the Xubuntu version, VirtualBox version, and shasum)
    - Tuffix Students community (add a link)

Commit message:

clarify Google Drive sharing settings

vm-build-process.md, after:


# Tuffix VM Build Process

These are the instructions to create a Tuffix VM. Ordinarily, they only need to be followed by the instructors who create the release VM.

1. On host OS
  - Install/upgrade VirtualBox, using the specific version stated in the installation instructions. As of this writing, that is **6.0.10**, at either https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads or https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Download_Old_Builds_6_0.
  - Download the latest Xubuntu 64-bit release .iso file, as of this writing **xubuntu-19.04-desktop-amd64.iso** (https://xubuntu.org/download/).
2. In VirtualBox on the host computer
  - New VM
    - Name: **Tuffix 2019 Edition**
    - Type: Linux
    - Version: Ubuntu (64-bit)
    - Memory: 2048 MB
    - Create Virtual Hard Disk Now > VDI > Dynamically allocated > 40 GB
  - VM settings
    - System > Pointing device > PS/2 Mouse
  - Display
    - Video Memory > 128 MB
    - Enable 3D acceleration: Yes
  - Storage > optical drive > select the .iso image you downloaded above
3. Start VM --- Xubuntu installer
  - Language: English
  - Click “Install Xubuntu”
  - Keyboard: English (US)
  - Download updates: yes
  - Install third-party software: yes
  - Erase disk and install
  - Time Zone: Los Angeles
  - User
    - Name: student
    - Computer Name: tuffix-vm
    - Username: student (prefilled)
    - Password: student
    - Require login: yes
  - *(let it finish, remove optical disk, restart)*
4. Xubuntu/Tuffix guest
  - Login as student
  - Use Firefox to download a background image, move it to to `~/Pictures`, set it as the desktop wallpaper, delete `~/.mozilla`
    - (we delete `~/.mozilla` so that students won't see this step in their browsing history)
    - Fall 2018: [Tuffix-Background-v2-1920x1080 - Jeffrey Lo.png](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1QFt8kOPKjpd18fjnDWEVCxVmi4512xNy)
    - Spring 2019: [Tuffix Background v3.3 1920x1080 - Jeffrey Lo.png](https://drive.google.com/open?id=16aBkkGTcgG40m4ayiuGNYbLM5BmDVjEC)
    - 2019 Edition: [Wallpaper Tux meets Tuffy - Brenda Valls - Edited.jpg](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1xKmzS8ilw-c1jdHSIQhd4j1mi36blIBC)
    - **pick a new image for each release**
  - Update all packages
  ```
  $ sudo apt update
  $ sudo apt upgrade
  $ sudo apt clean
  ```
5. Follow the **native install instructions** to run the `tuffixize` script, etc.
6. Guest additions
  - if you haven't already, reboot the VM to make sure the upgraded kernel is running
  - with the VM running and student logged in...
  - click Devices > Insert Guest Additions CD image...
  - use a terminal to run `autorun.sh`
  - (the script takes a few minutes)
  - use the desktop icon to eject the guest additions CD
  - (as instructed) reboot the VM
  - verify that the additions are working by going fullscreen and observing
    that the desktop resizes accordingly
7. Zerofree
  - (this step makes the .ova file substantially smaller, thereby faster to download)
  - Shut down VM
  - Insert Xubuntu CD image again
  - Start VM > boot from CD > Try Xubuntu > terminal
  ```
  $ sudo apt install zerofree
  $ sudo zerofree -v /dev/sda1
  ```
  (this takes several minutes)
  - Shut down, including ejecting the Xubuntu CD
8. Final check
  - Create snapshot
  - Start VM
  - Check that Atom can start, fullscreen window works, Firefox has no history
  - Shut down
  - Restore the snapshot
9. Create .ova and checksum
  - VirtualBox > File > Export Appliance
    (this takes a few minutes)
  - `$ shasum -a 256 "Tuffix 2019 Edition.ova"`
  - Upload the .ova to Google Drive
10. Publish
  - Update the following documents:
    - these VM build instructions (the bold text, and filename in the shasum command above)
    - installation instructions (the Xubuntu version, VirtualBox version, and shasum)
    - upload the .ova to Google Drive, and set the file's sharing settings to
      "On - Anyone with the link".
    - Tuffix Students community (add a link)
